Beast Arena was my first completed game using Unreal Engine. It featured fast paced combat, boss-like enemies,
and a crafting system. Since this was an early project, this video will be more of a reflection rather than a showcase of
features.

Beast Area was my first dive into AI using Unreal's Behavior Tree System. Although I was already familiar with state-machine AI
from previous projects, having a visual representation not only helped during the planning phase, but also while debugging.
For example, debugging state-machine AI either required break-points or debug messages to properly locate issues. This also
meant I would have been recompiling code often, wasting precious time. Since I took advantage of Behavior Tree's,
I could visualize which nodes were active directly in the engine. This helped immensily as I was still new to designing
AI using this system.

This project also introduced me to using Blueprints at a larger scale. If not properly maintained, blueprints can become a
nightmare to work with. I began to feel the struggle nearing the end of the projects completion as I was trying to pump
as many features as I could. Taking a brief look at the player blueprint and animation blueprint, it is clear that
code was scattered and unorganized. Attacking, dashing, and even death were handled in the animation BP. To give myself
some credit, I was most proud of the crafting system I developed alongside the inventory UI. It featured draggable items
and a crafting system that allowed you to combine items together. It was an eye opening moment for me at the time because
parts of the dragging UI system was already handled by Unreal. I could spend more time working on other aspects of the game
rather than reinventing the wheel.

While Beast Arena is nowhere near a perfect game for my standards today, it gave me the confidence to continue learning
Unreal Engine and eventually C++. Today, I make a conscious effort to avoid tightly coupled components.
It has paid dividends as I am able to reuse old systems for new projects without having to refactor code. You can play
an updated version of Beast Arena today on itchio. Thank you.